{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red11\green81\blue160;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Read Me\
\
This is an assignment of the Machine Learning Course in the Coursera Data Science Specialization.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Background\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Using devices such as\'a0
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Jawbone Up
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
,\'a0
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Nike FuelBand
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
, and\'a0
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Fitbit
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'a0it is now possible to collect a large amount of data about personal activity\'a0relatively inexpensively. These type of devices are part of the quantified self movement \'96 a group of enthusiasts who take measurements about themselves regularly to improve their health, to find patterns in their behavior, or because they are tech geeks. One thing that people regularly do is quantify how\'a0
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
much
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'a0of a particular activity they do, but they rarely quantify\'a0
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
how well they do it
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
. In this project, your goal will be to use data from accelerometers on the belt, forearm, arm, and dumbell of 6 participants. They were asked to perform barbell lifts correctly and incorrectly in 5 different ways. More information is available from the website here:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://groupware.les.inf.puc-rio.br/har"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
http://groupware.les.inf.puc-rio.br/har}}\'a0(see the section on the Weight Lifting Exercise Dataset).\'a0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Data
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'a0\
\
The training data for this project are available here:\'a0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/predmachlearn/pml-training.csv"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc3 https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/predmachlearn/pml-training.csv}}\
\
The test data are available here:\'a0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/predmachlearn/pml-testing.csv"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/predmachlearn/pml-testing.csv}}\
\
The data for this project come from this source:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://groupware.les.inf.puc-rio.br/har"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
http://groupware.les.inf.puc-rio.br/har}}. If you use the document you create for this class for any purpose please cite them as they have been very generous in allowing their data to be used for this kind of assignment.\'a0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What you should submit\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The goal of your project is to predict the manner in which they did the exercise. This is the "classe" variable in the training set. You may use any of the other variables to predict with. You should create a report describing how you built your model, how you used cross validation, what you think the expected out of sample error is, and\'a0why you made the choices you did. You will also use your prediction model to predict 20 different test cases.\'a0\
\
1. Your submission should consist of a link to a Github repo with your\'a0R markdown and compiled HTML file describing your analysis. Please constrain the text of the writeup to < 2000 words and the number of figures to be less than 5. It will make it easier for the graders if you submit a repo with a gh-pages branch so the HTML page can be viewed online (and you always want to make it easy on graders :-).\
2. You should also apply your machine learning algorithm to the 20 test cases available in the test data above. Please\'a0submit your predictions in appropriate format to the programming assignment for automated grading. See the programming assignment for additional details.\'a0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reproducibility
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'a0\
\
Due to security concerns with the exchange of R code, your code will not be run during the evaluation by your classmates. Please be sure that if they download the repo, they will be able to view the compiled HTML version of your analysis.\'a0}